readme.adoc, before:

== Abstract
Mozilla Thunderbird add-on that automatically marks messages as read in common folders like spam, trash, drafts, templates etc. +
The common folders to be taken into account can be selected in the options panel of the add-on. The folders preselected are: spam, trash, drafts and templates.

== Why this extension might be useful?
IMAP mail providers like gmx automatically move e-mails to the spam folder and these e-mails remain there with the status "unread". Thunderbird shows the accumulated number of ALL unread emails for an account next to the account name. But unread emails, e.g. in the spam folder, are not relevant for most users. It can therefore make sense to automatically mark all e-mails in the spam folder as "read".

== Motivation
I couldn't find an add-on that provided this functionality.

== Functionality
The onFolderInfoChanged event is listened to. Unread e-mails in the affected folder are determined and their status is set to "read".

The folders to which the functionality is applied are selectable (configurable) in the options panel of the add-on.

To test the functionality, an email in a configured folder (e.g. spam folder) can be marked as unread using the context menu. A very short moment later, this email is automatically marked as read by this add-on.

I think the functionality should be compatible with other addons.

mailto:mewc@gmx.de[I am] grateful for comments, hints and suggestions.

== Installation
Zip the content of the src folder and install the archive in Thunderbird's `+Add-ons Manager+` with `+Install Add-on from file...+`.

Or take the already zipped release version from the `+build+` subfolder.

The default configuration is that the following common folders remain marked as read: junk, trash, drafts, templates.
Which common folders should be taken into account can be configured in the `Add-on Options` panel.

== Additional Information
This project has no license and lies in the public domain.

Commit message:

updated readme for version warning.

readme.adoc, after:

== Abstract
Mozilla Thunderbird add-on that automatically marks messages as read in common folders like spam, trash, drafts, templates etc. +
The common folders to be taken into account can be selected in the options panel of the add-on. The folders preselected are: spam, trash, drafts and templates.

== Why this extension might be useful?
IMAP mail providers like gmx automatically move e-mails to the spam folder and these e-mails remain there with the status "unread". Thunderbird shows the accumulated number of ALL unread emails for an account next to the account name. But unread emails, e.g. in the spam folder, are not relevant for most users. It can therefore make sense to automatically mark all e-mails in the spam folder as "read".

== Motivation
I couldn't find an add-on that provided this functionality.

== Functionality
The onFolderInfoChanged event is listened to. Unread e-mails in the affected folder are determined and their status is set to "read".

The folders to which the functionality is applied are selectable (configurable) in the options panel of the add-on.

To test the functionality, an email in a configured folder (e.g. spam folder) can be marked as unread using the context menu. A very short moment later, this email is automatically marked as read by this add-on.

I think the functionality should be compatible with other addons.

mailto:mewc@gmx.de[I am] grateful for comments, hints and suggestions.

== Installation
Zip the content of the src folder and install the archive in Thunderbird's `+Add-ons Manager+` with `+Install Add-on from file...+`.

Or take the already zipped release version from the `+build+` subfolder.

The default configuration is that the following common folders remain marked as read: junk, trash, drafts, templates.
Which common folders should be taken into account can be configured in the `Add-on Options` panel.

*Important:* +
If you are using Thunderbird until version 121 then use the latest v1.5.* release of the add-on.

For Thunderbird 122 and above use the add-on version 1.6 or later.

== Additional Information
This project has no license and lies in the public domain.
